README.md, before:

## Mailsink: a SMTP sink and search for programmatic emails

Many software systems rely on being able to send automated
emails. Examples include cron, windmill.dev and so on.

Unfortunately, the rise of spam has made simple unauthenticated SMTP a
thing of the past, and self-hosting email is becoming increasingly difficult
and time-consuming.

Mailsink is a server that is configured as a relayhost. All emails get saved
to a SQLite database, and it has a web server to see the emails and search
them.

This is a simple search facility for Hugo generated sites. It uses SQLite's
[FTS5][1] full-text search engine, albeit with a search syntax for phrases,
negation and boolean queriesinspired  by Google's original syntax rather than
FTS5's idiosyncratic one.

The SQLite file format is portable across OS and architectures. You could
build an index on a Mac and deploy to a Linux server.
https://www.sqlite.org/aff_short.html

This server is meant to be used on an Intranet to handle non-sensitive emails,
the kind programmatically generated by software like cron jobs.

### Installation

To build `mailsync` from source, run `make` in this directory.

copy `bin/fts5index` somewhere in your `$PATH`.

You cannot simply use `go build` because go-sqlite3 requires build tags to
include the fts5 extension.

### Usage

```
host$ ./mailsink -h
Usage of ./mailsink:
  -db string
    	SQLite database path (default "mailsink.db")
  -http string
    	HTTP server address (default "127.0.0.1:8080")
  -smtp string
    	SMTP server address (default "127.0.0.1:2525")
```

[1]: https://www.sqlite.org/fts5.html

Commit message:

mention GMail usability for large mailboxes

README.md, after:

## Mailsink: a SMTP sink and search for programmatic emails

Many software systems rely on being able to send automated
emails. Examples include cron, windmill.dev and so on.

Unfortunately, the rise of spam has made simple unauthenticated SMTP a
thing of the past, and self-hosting email is becoming increasingly difficult
and time-consuming. GMail is also unusable for large mailboxes, operations
like deleting large amounts of bulk emails are painfully slow if they even
complete without generating errors.

Mailsink is a server that is configured as a relayhost. All emails get saved
to a SQLite database, and it has a web server to see the emails and search
them.

This is a simple search facility for Hugo generated sites. It uses SQLite's
[FTS5][1] full-text search engine, albeit with a search syntax for phrases,
negation and boolean queriesinspired  by Google's original syntax rather than
FTS5's idiosyncratic one.

The SQLite file format is portable across OS and architectures. You could
build an index on a Mac and deploy to a Linux server.
https://www.sqlite.org/aff_short.html

This server is meant to be used on an Intranet to handle non-sensitive emails,
the kind programmatically generated by software like cron jobs.

### Installation

To build `mailsync` from source, run `make` in this directory.

copy `bin/fts5index` somewhere in your `$PATH`.

You cannot simply use `go build` because go-sqlite3 requires build tags to
include the fts5 extension.

### Usage

```
host$ ./mailsink -h
Usage of ./mailsink:
  -db string
    	SQLite database path (default "mailsink.db")
  -http string
    	HTTP server address (default "127.0.0.1:8080")
  -smtp string
    	SMTP server address (default "127.0.0.1:2525")
```

[1]: https://www.sqlite.org/fts5.html
